# == Frontiers a2026.0.1: The Big Bad Update ==

It's the moment you've been waiting for: Frontiers' first big content update is here! 

This content update brings a bunch of different things (including some Christmas content that was supposed to be for a smaller Christmas-themed update, lol). Be prepared to discover new Frontiers all over again!

--------------------------
## Additions
### Fruitcake
- Crafted with fruit, milk, sugar, wheat, and eggs
- Unlike regular Cake, using it picks up a slice
- A single slice restores 6 hunger points
- When you can't eat anymore, you can throw it, dealing as much damage as it restores hunger
- Killing an entity with a Fruitcake Slice grants the "It's You!" advancement
### Wreaths
- A new decorative block crafted from leaves & assorted materials
- Can be placed on the sides of solid blocks, leaves, and door faces
  - Will not have any collision on doors, and won't break when opening them. Pretend it's an Alpha bug turned into a feature lol
- Can be crafted out of every kind of leaves
- Can also be worn on your head. Why not.
### Tower Bricks (Block Family)
- Note Blocks now play a new sound when placed on Tower Bricks
- Added stairs, slabs and walls for Tower Bricks & Mossy Tower Bricks
### Slime Trails
- Naturally spawns in slime chunks, acting as a natural indicator that Slimes can potentially spawn in that chunk!
- Slime Trail blocks have a very rare chance to drope a single Slime Ball when broken, or can be mined with Silk Touch
- EXTREMELY flammable.
- Sometimes, Slime Trails will generate with a unique block...the **Slime Bulb**.
### Slime Bulb
- Occasionally generates with Slime Trails in slime chunks
- Are covered in slime, so it might be a little hard to spot from farther away
- Contains a tiny little bulb of Hardened Slime that takes a LONG time to grow
  - It's also very fragile; it'll drop nothing if not fully mature and will break once the block below it is gone!
- The bulb has 3 stages of growth; at the 3rd and biggest stage, it'll drop a single **Hardened Slime** when interacted with (or broken)
  - Once harvested, the bulb will never grow again...
### Hardened Slime
- A new crafting material obtained from Slime Bulbs
- Replaces the Slime Block for the Potion of Oozing brewing recipe
- Used in crafting Slime Shoes
### Slime Shoes
- Crafted from 4 Hardened Slime
- Doubles your safe fall distance, meaning you can fall 6 blocks without taking damage
- Will cause you to bounce upwards like a Slime Block when falling from heights over 1 block tall
  - When falling from 3+ blocks, the boots will take 1 point of durability. Don't jump with nearly broken shoes!
- Can be repaired with Hardened Slime
### Bouncy Ball
- A unique variation of Ball, craftable from 4 Slime Balls and 1 uncolored Ball
- Can bounce up to 4 times off blocks
- If hit with anything that would deflect a ball, its bounce count replenishes - allowing you to do even cooler things!
- (The bounce code is based on code from @Yirmiri - go check out Dungeon's Delight if you haven't yet!)
### Bait
- Crafted from 1 Slime and 1 Rotten Flesh
- (TODO: STILL WIP ADD IT)
### Golden Chicken
- Doesn't spawn naturally; Golden Eggs will sometimes spawn them on impact
- Acts exactly the same as a Chicken...except for the fact it'll always lay Golden Eggs!
  - Shares the Chicken's loot table, meaning anything that might change it will also affect the Golden Chicken
  - Golden Chickens and Chickens can also interbreed
- Golden Chickens won't directly create new offspring when bred - they'll just lay Golden Eggs instead
### Block of Necro Weave
- Crafted from 9 Necro Weave and acts as a compact way of storing Necro Weave
- Unlike most ore blocks, it doesn't power beacons and can be broken by hand
- Has super-strong protection against fall damage, allowing you to survive a fall from world height!
### Necro Rug
- Crafted from 2 Necro Weave, produces 4
- Sneaking on Necro Rug allows you to phase through it
### Cobalt Grilles
- Crafted from 6 Cobalt Ingots, similar to Iron Bars; makes 24 grilles
- Can be used as decoration
### Misc
- Nothing yet

--------------------------
## Changes
### Bouncy Arrow
- Will now ricochet off of enemies when hitting them
  - This also will prevent the arrow from showing up stuck in a player when hit
  - Will consequently no longer work with the Piercing Enchantment
- Will now bounce 2 times instead of 1
- Rewrote ricochet code (based on code from @Yirmiri, thank you so much!)
  - Will now bounce off a wall more realistically, allowing for far greater control of the arrow
### Dynamite Arrow
- Will now cause a fiery explosion if the arrow is set on fire (barely noticeable)
### Ball
- Reworked how balls are registered in code. This should allow modded dyes to automatically have associated balls
  - **NOTE:** this ONLY adds the item. Translations, recipes, etc. will not exist; unless they're added on Frontiers' end, it's up to you to add these. Sorry!
- Ball entities now have new NBT values that determine how bouncy they are - `DefaultBounces` & `BouncesLeft`
- Reworded how the intercept announcement is displayed when a player wasn't responsible for it
### Personal Chest
- When attempting to break a Personal Chest when you don't own it, it will now turn translucent and disable collision
- Personal Chests are no longer indestrucible, but will instead take 500 seconds to mine by players who don't own them
### Eboncork
- Now properly generates in the Crags, finally making it obtainable in Survival
- Generates in large spikes that either protrude from the ceiling or floor
  - This is the only way to obtain Eboncork - there won't be any saplings or anything!
- Reduced Eboncork Plank recipe output to 1 due to how common the spikes are in the Crags
- Added Eboncork Doors & Trapdoors
### Blighted Birch
- Added Blighted Birch Doors & Trapdoors
### Golden Egg
- Now thrown when used instead of broken, creating a projectile
- When hitting any surface, it will give Allurement to every player within a small area 
- Rarely, the projectile will also spawn a Golden Chicken - a Chicken variant that exclusively lays Golden Eggs
### Marshmallow
- Updated texture; no jumbo marshmallow for you I'm afraid
- The marshmallow recipe now crafts 4 instead of 2
- Now edible EXTREMELY fast - even faster than Dried Kelp
### Quicksand
- Will no longer render its sides when next to more quicksand
- Updated textures
- Now exclusively generates in Jungles
### Plate Armor
- Recieved an overhaul
  - No longer provides armor and knockback resistance; now provides extra health and added mining reach/efficiency
- Added Plate Legpiece and Plate Boots
### Raw Ore Blocks
- Updated the textures for ALL raw ore blocks
- I'm terrible with raw ore sprites, so these are the first Frontiers sprites not made by me. Special thanks to the guest sprite artists who helped:
  - Raw Cobalt & Raw Frostite - @Hecco56 (GitHub)
### Misc
- Updated the texture for Necro Weave
- Moved several blockstates/models to datagen
- Removed an "Also try <X>!" splash text referencing a pretty suggestive game...still a good game, but Frontiers is meant for all ages. :)

--------------------------
## Vanilla Changes
### Chicken
- Changed Golden Egg drop chance from 50% to 25% to account for Golden Chickens
- Able to breed with Golden Chickens
### Egg (Projectile)
- Now makes a cracking sound when breaking
### Potions
- **Oozing**
  - Now made with Hardened Slime instead of Slime Blocks
### Wither
- Now has its own boss music
  - Might be placeholder, might not be. Depends on what people think of it.
### Desert Pyramid
- Now has a chance to generate a super secret basement. (this DID exist in part before, but was unfinished)
    - This basement will go down pretty far and include some unique loot (plus many more Tablet Fragments)!
    - Be careful though...I don't think the temple's old inhabitants would appreciate you just waltzing in and looting it...

### Misc
- Nothing yet
--------------------------
## Integration/Compatibility

### Delicate Dyes
- Added properly-integrated balls for all 10 dyes

--------------------------
## Fixes
- All Frontiers blocks that should be flammable (i.e Blighted Birch) are now flammable
- Fixed Spirit Candles not being able to be lit by flaming projectiles
- Chickens will now follow players holding items in the `GOLDEN_CHICKEN_FOOD` tag
- Chickens can now only be set into "Golden Egg" mode upon successful item consumption - not just by using the item on them